customers in this Massachusetts
restaurant might not notice that the cup
they are using is made of corn and is
biodegradable but this is one of the
steps the casual food restaurant chain
below Co has taken to be labeled green
Michael harder is president and chief
operating officer of the chain first was
that we had to eliminate styrofoam as
one of our options and we actually
replace styrofoam with this cup right
here which is a corn based poly lactate
or PLA cup the small sign on the window
reads certified green restaurant it
provides a hint that the owner has
embraced a number of ecologically minded
practices the certification is issued by
the Green Restaurant Association or GRA
a Boston based organization founded in
1990 Michael Ashman the founder says the
words green and business were rarely
seen on the same page back then but the
Green Restaurant movement is finally
flourishing we currently have about 260
restaurants across the country and also
a little bit in Canada that are
certified green restaurants and
restaurants that are on their way to
certification we are currently growing
at an incredible pace last year we
tripled in size the amount of
restaurants on board and this coming
year were likely to do the same to meet
the GRA s environmental guidelines below
COEs harder says the chain has
implemented a recycling program
outfitted employees with organic cotton
t-shirts and introduced naturally raised
meats and chicken the animals are
allowed to roam freely and are free of
antibiotics and additional growth
hormones
he says his restaurant is taking four
additional steps this year including
replacing the plastic containers with
the ones made from compostable plant
fibers Brenda Mahoney is a regular
customer I think it's important
support places that are environmentally
friendly so we definitely reinforced my
my habit of coming here in addition to
increased customer loyalty restaurants
find other benefits from the
environmentally conscious practices Jose
Duarte is the chef and owner of Italian
restaurant taranta in downtown Boston he
says he has completed GRA s 20
environmental steps each single item
that we actually put in the restaurant
and we changed we we've seen results the
tankless water heaters were one of the
nicest thing that I could put in there
because we're saving about 150 to 200
dollars a month in our normal gas bill
Duarte says switching to environmentally
friendly systems such as
energy-efficient lighting water
conserving spray heads and delivery
vehicles fueled by cooking oil often
cost money but he says that long-term
savings cover these expenses and result
in lower operating costs
he says recycling and food waste
composting programs helped him cut the
garbage bill by 40 percent and now very
little trash actually goes to the
landfill we know it doesn't change the
world it changes our part of the world
and it's it's things that our customers
are asking for so it's relevant to our
customers it's things that we are trying
to do for ourselves as well we live in
our communities industry and government
figures show that foodservice buildings
are the most energy intensive of all
commercial buildings so the green
restaurant associations Ashman says with
restaurants accounting for 10 percent of
the nation's economy the push for
sustainable practices in the industry
has great potential to help the planet
for producer June so I'm Melinda Smith
VOA news